[Music]
i'm here in france very close to paris
i'm glad to say romance has blossomed
and there's been a result
is heaven for captive cats they have the
biggest
closures i've ever seen hugh this year
they've struck gold because their female
ammo leopard
has given birth to her first litter not
one not two but
three gorgeous cubs
curator gregory britton has been keeping
a close eye on them from the day they
were born
using cameras placed in the den these
cats can be
super sensitive with a new litter kila
is a first time mum
so for the first few weeks they were
left as undisturbed as possible
[Music]
and was she a good mother was she
looking after them as well yeah yeah
she was licking them with dedication you
know and
very protective is that normal would you
expect her to be that
that good first time you never know with
cats
but in this case she got three cubs so
it was very positive for her and
she adapted very well yeah
now the cubs were born about two months
ago and since then
gregory and the team have kept contact
to an absolute minimum just left them
with the mum
but today we've got to pick them up and
that's for a very good reason
it's time for their vaccinations really
important sort of health check
but it's a little bit tense a little bit
nervous because they've had such
little contact with humans they're not
quite sure how they're going to react
but we'll see
[Music]
they tried to hide look at that
that's smaller than a car oh look look
fantastic but they're quite
nervous which is good look at him
because they're not used to humans at
all which is the way you want it to be
yeah
they need to be handled correctly this
is the way mum would hold them
it doesn't hurt them at all
okay that's a fairly miraculous handful
two animal leopards three that's ten
percent
of the wild population is in our hands
right here we go first
gregory wants to weigh them now who's
that going to work
use your hand to open the bag okay head
first or
try head first any which way
okay okay back back
she's not happy yeah she's not happy but
i think that's a good thing yeah
good there we go well done hey i just
had a thought gregory
putting her in is one thing how am i
going to get her out
look okay you ready
250. 250 kilometers is that good yeah
she's coming on nicely yeah first blood
to amer leopard
a little bit of bleeding but it's in a
good cause
this is the front line of saving species
from extinction
because without places like this and
people like gregory these beautiful
creatures
will disappear forever you don't like
this much do you you poor old thing but
it has to be done
while i'm here with these feisty cubs in
colchester
hopes are high if all goes to plan they
too could have an ammo family
vicky is excited but a bundle of nerves
[Music]
we've been watching melina closely now
for a few months
to try and gauge her seasons we're
pretty sure she's in season and we're
going to mix them today
absolutely anything could happen so it's
always going to be a risk but um
yeah i'm quite nervous actually elena
and sian are powerful predators i must
only come together to mate and if the
timing is wrong
it could be disastrous
but what can they actually do if one cat
attacks the other
well if they don't get on we've got
things in place like hoses fire
extinguishers and
obviously we can't go in there to split
them up so we're just gonna be
squirting things and shouting through
the bars as the best we can do really
if the worst comes to the worst they
bring out the big guns
literally this is our darting rifle it's
not something that we like to use when
you're
putting cats together but it's just in
case we have a situation where we feel
things are getting completely out of
control
sometimes you put two cats together and
they and they fight like cat and dog
everyone is in possession everyone's
ready
let's just hope it all goes well today
hey baby hey baby
[Music]
okay saying's gone the moment of truth
here we go
will they get along or will it end in
tragedy
[Music]
has vicky got the timing right will
these two virgins even know what to do
[Music]
no melina's quick to see saiyan off
no damage is done but it can still go
horribly wrong
[Music]
you